Lately I've been thinking a lot about AI. I guess everybody has been. The thing is, every since I was little I was 
heavily into PC's and technology. I remember my mom having a palm, sharing shongs via bluetooth with my neighbors and friends. 
I remember playing with my dad's ipod when I was little and being amazed at the 80 gigs storage capacity it had lmao. 
And when the first kid brough an ipod touch to class and it was so incredible by the end of the year we all had one, it was 5th grade. 
Tech advancement has been so fast, it is really incredible. When I was on highschool I remember programming a little on python and using an 
arduino to move a little car. In elementary school learning a little visual basic and stuff like that. 

I really like tech, in general, more over software and analytics, but since I studied a major in social sciences I have been struggling to get back into it. I learnt a lot of R 
during the pandemic since I felt like it was a useful skill to learn; but I learnt it on my own. Professors used software like 
GRETL or Matlab, only to solve some algorythmic problems of general equilibrium and solving some equations; but none of that has 
really proved helpful in my parkour throughout the public sector. 

It is strange the disconnect that exists between universities even, private ones, on what it taught and what is in demand in regards to
capabilities in the private and public sector. 

Things move fast, and with time, through sheer pushing myslef through the grind, I've learnt python decently enough, SQL, HTML the barebones, 
some CSS, and some other cryptic analytics tools like Shiny, Leaflet, QGIS, tapping on the terminal and what not. You know, the basic 
analytics stuff. 

Since I am in this field, and know some of the people around me working in it; I've consumed copious amounts of the fucking Silicon Valley Kool-Aid 
now that this AI thing has started to take off. 
I was really hesitant at first. The reality is that I did NOT want to pay too much attention to it. It seemed like a passing fad. 
But I think that time has proven, specially in the tech and coding and analytics space, that it is most likely not. 
I started using ChatGPT so much, but on a basic surface level. Saved me a couple of clicks off of the google search, cleaned up 
a little R script here and there. I guess when I started to be able to upload images and it telling me the answers of crossword puzzles
then it kinda hit me that this was really changing my life. 

I started seeing my mom use it for her createive writing; my friends literally asking it for advice in advancing their professional 
carreers and how to move forward and which decisions to take in crucial aspects of their life. 

I read the New Yorker every now and then and came into [this article](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2025/07/07/the-end-of-the-english-paper)
and have been watching most Peter Thiel interviews, ([this is a good one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5_0dVHMpJlo)), [Sam Altman appearances](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7dCPytNTnjk) and what not.
The thing is, I am a half baked communist at heart; and while discussing these ideas amongst said circles, conversation centers around the ideological 
aspect of these new technologies. There is heavy truth in regards to a [idiotic messianic complexes](https://www.stephendiehl.com/posts/ideologies_21st_century/)
but there is an emerging technology which is set to make a vast amount of intellectual work obsolete which requires, imo, a deeper analysis and a hardes, more critical 
even marxist or whatever, understanding of this fenomena. 

While I am sure of that there is a wide range of existing publications on these, it seems that most of what's been written about the subject ranges from
sci-fi novels and Nick Lang's stuff. There is an interest, I believe, from newer tech moguls and this rising class of tech billionaires now incursing into 
politics in making the coming of whatever this is inevitable. There is a heavly coating of niceties which attract edgy kids in this: ideas like going to mars
and playinng off LotR things which can indeed couple some of the best minds we have at our disposal as a species. Add to it the belonging to an hard to reach 
club in which only the smarty pants nerds from college can get to and what is breeding, from afar at least, seems like a very reactionary class which is about
to get really battered by their own inventions. 

Add to this a crumbling democratic ecosystem world and I am not sure if to expect anything from these nerds. 
I have never really belonged into this community but right now I've been growing an interest in it, specially for what it may mean in my life the fact
that these discoveries really plunge at the heart of the things I like to do as work: Analyze things, come up with solutions and recommendations, do cute
little powerpoints and push for policy changes. 

I think that my generation, 1997, has a really big change coming, and I do not know how emerging economies or poor countries or even countries without the 
push that the US, China, India, Japan et al, fit into this conversation. Maybe they don't. But what I know for sure is that there is not enough critical thinking
to go around in any circles I know, and I do believe we have another thing comming to us if we do not wake up and do something about it. 

The seeds have been planted and they are wating to saw: discredit for climate change, a push for deregulation, financial and free reign on the new developments of the field, 
investment in heavy political actors like Donald Trump and JD Vance, a crowd of cheering nerds, heavy capital accumulation and deep pockets to clean us all out, 
more importantly, a thick layer of confusion and a product which is set to revolutionize the masses. 

I work in the public sector and seeing [This palantir ad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dR1c8qpMrJQ), understanding that it **is** an ad, made my head spin. Because it solves the problem I have seen 
most government dependencies have, which is to be unable to transfer previous knowledge and backwards processes in registries like excel and takin them into new 
innovative software which is able to extract extreme insights which previously could have never worked. 

I don't wanna linger too long here because it's late but I'll keep writing whenever I feel like it about this here. 
OAL  
