I feel really at home with the english language. That's the truth. 

I guess it's a little strange seeing how much of a nationalist I've grown up to be, but it is also no surprise. 
I mean, most of the content I consume, call it books, news, youtube videos, movies, whatever, comes from the US. 
Some of my favourite writting is in English, I really enjoy Shakespeare, corny anf classic as it sounds, but the passage from 
Hamlen which goes something like: 

_I have of late, 
but wherefore I know not, lost all my mirth,
forgone all custom of excercises; 
and indeed it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
this most excellent canopu, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament,
this majestical roof fretted with golden fire, why,
it appears no other thing to me than a foul and pestilent
congregation of vapors. What a piece of work is a man!
How noble in reason, how infinite in faculties,
in form and moving how express and admirable,
in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like
a god! The beauty of the world, the paragon of animals!
And yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?_

Kills me. Some of the lines of Cormac McCarthy I remember and take to heart, like that line from **No Country for Old Men**,
_I always thought when I got older that God would sort of come into my life in some way. He didn't._

There's just something about the ease of use and the foreigness of the language, which, even if it was not the one we spoke at home, it was
the one my mother tried her hardest to make me learn. 
I remember when I was little she pulled me out of the school I was in in order for me to be in a biilingual elementary school. I cried a lot. 
I have this very vivid memory of us reading out of some old Winnie The Pooh books late nigh. She came home from work, exhausted, and still took 
time to teach me english before I want to elemenraty. They even moved me back a year in order to "propperly learn it"; that's how important me learning 
the english language was to my family. 

There's, as there usually is, a class element to it. The now almost extint mexican middle class is one filled with aprehensions about our sad earth, 
a class which tends to look north for inspiration, who idolizes life in the US. It is the language in which some of our sad, uninspiring, mostly backwards
and shameful, upper crust uses to communicate. It's even a source of divide within the rich, it's consider inferior to diolize the monarchic, barnyard eurpeans, 
the spanish, than to idolize and embrase american consumer culture. 

There's this one quote in _La muerte de Artemio Cruz_ one of the better books by our intelligentsia, which I just for the life of me cannot find right now, 
but it goes something like "Envidias a los gringos, su facilidad de hacer las cosas", una madre así. 
There's something about the mixture of our cultures which, of course just makes sense. We are so close to each other, and yet so far. 
We tend to think about Mexico as a fairly multucultural place, but the fact of the matter is that we are not as tied and connected to other cultures as, say, 
any european country. We only have ourselves to follow and the US. Fuck Canada, and Central America does not have the cultural pull that the machine that's
cranking out movies in LA does. South America, our brothers which our governments have sadly neglected, is still very far away. We are landlocked between the US
and nothing. 

There is a prevailing idea, or at least there was, that answers for the problems which here reside, simply cannot be found within. They must be elsewhere, 
the problem being that elsewhere mostly consists of US schools and content. Smarter people than me have written about the cultural implications of the 
cultural rift taking place in this country, specifically Huntington I guess in Clash of Cinvilizations. I am a product, perhaps of this phenomenon.  
The thing is, I love the english language, I feel so at home in it. It helps me conceptualize and schematize my procedures much more than spanish does. 
I ended up, in the end, colonized and brainwashed by said culture.

Spanish is tough beyond believe, I think of it as a language in which every word, every sentence, pulls so heavily from earth, from it's deep historical 
connection of the colony and the pain which has built this country. It is the language in which the trunks of our trees whisper and roar as the wind 
blows through their empty cores, it is the language in which we weep, deep feelings of sorrow inaccesible to the enlish language, pains which would take
books to explain are synthezised in a sentence here. To drink and to love and long so deeply it would uproot the whole structure of the anglo-saxon world. 
Madness unlike anyone has experienced there, wells of deep running rivers of love and mystique of the earth, which are simply inaccesible with the english
language. 

Spanish, wonderous and filled with chivalry is a hard beast to tame. And is blinded at times by the pull of emotion, much like our national character. 
This, one of my countless defects, I am able to better manage with english. It is structurally sound and unbounded in much the same way. 
It's strange because it is the language of Yeats and of DFW. It is inmense in it span and yeat feels airy, un rooted, like a flying creature or even the 
sky itself. While spanish is more like the language of those of us who dwell in the earth. 


I have had to come to terms with this, but I felt like writting something about the English language because I very much have loved, and lived, and 
much more through it, and at times I have to take a step back and recognize that in this place it is not as normal as I make it out to be, and that 
because of it I at times struggle to explain specific things in spanish. I do not think I want to categorize or order said languages in regards to how much I 
love them, but I do wonder at times wether to write in english or spanish, and what for in either language. 

-OAL 



 
